In this capstone project, a simple Automobile Insurance Policy and Claims Administration system (PAS) will be created to manage customer automobile insurance policies and as well as accident claims for an insurance company.

An insurance company customer can buy one or more Automobile Policies.
Before a customer can buy a policy, an account must be created for the customer. The customer’s account then contains all of the customers policies.

The Automobile Insurance Policy and Claims Administration System (PAS) Specification.

Minimum requirements of the PAS system are as follows:

    Allow new accounts to be created for new customers
    Allow application for new policies to be created and added to the purchasing customer’s account:
    each policy must be linked to a new or existing policyholder
    during policy creation, more than one vehicle can be added to the policy; however, a vehicle can only be on one policy.
    Allow adding of a new claim against a specific policy in the case of an accident
    After creation of new policy applications, allow the new policies to be rated and a premium (price) calculated. The calculation of the premium is based on a calculation detailed in the Policy Rating Algorithm section below.

The PAS system should use a console-based UI which should provide a menu of options:

    Create a new Customer Account
    Get a policy quote and buy the policy.
    Cancel a specific policy (i.e change the expiration date of a policy to an earlier date than originally specified)
    File an accident claim against a policy. All claims must be maintained by system and should be searchable.
    Search for a Customer account
    Search for and display a specific policy
    Search for and display a specific claim
    Exit the PAS System


The PAS System top-level algorithm:

        Display a menu of options.

        Prompt the user for a menu choice.
        For option #2, prompt the user for the account number of the account containing the relevant policy – a customer account must exist before policy purchase.
        For option #3, #4, and #6, prompt the user for the specific policy number.
        For option #5, prompt the user for the first name and last name of the customer to search for (For now we will assume customer names are unique).
        For option #7, prompt the user for the specific claim number needed.
        Once the user selects an option, perform the action requested by the user on the identified account or policy.
        Repeat steps 1 through 7 until the user has selected the option to exit.


The Policy Rating algorithm i.e. premium calculation:
When quoting a price for a Policy, the PAS system must utilize a rating engine which will calculate the premium for each vehicle in a policy as follows:

    P (premium) = (vp x vpf) + ((vp/100)/dlx)
    P = calculated premium
    vp = vehicle purchase price
    vpf = vehicle price factor
    dlx = num of years since driver license was first issued
    The vehicle price factor (vpf) must be looked up from the following table which must be used by the Rating Engine:
    Vehicle Age is less than (yrs)
    Vehicle Price factor

            1-1.0%
            3-0.8%
            5-0.7%
            10-0.6%
            15-0.4%
            20-0.2%
            40-0.1%

The Rating engine will select the highest factor for the vehicle age matches.


PAS System Code Design

The PAS system can be modeled with a PASApp object, CustomerAccount objects, Policy objects, PolicyHolder objects, Vehicle objects, Claim objects, and one Rating Engine object.

Each Customer Account must have the following information:

    A unique numeric 4-digit account number
    The account owner (first name, last name, and address)
    A list of policies owned by that account
    A list of policy holders associated with the policies in the account


Each Policy must have the following information associated with it:

    a unique 6-digit numeric policy number.
    The Effective Date of the policy coverage
    The Expiration Date of the policy coverage (In this simple case, this PAS system will only support 6 month policy terms which means the expiration date is automatically calculated and set to be 6 months exactly from the given customer-selected effective date)
    a Policy Holder i.e. the person/driver covered by the policy – in this simple case, this will usually also be the customer but you must be ready to handle the scenario in which the PolicyHolder is different from the Account owner – for example, the PolicyHolder could be the child or the spouse of the customer.
    one or more Vehicles that are insured by the policy
    the system derived policy premium (cost for policy to be paid by customer)

Each Policy Holder must have the following information associated with it:

    First name and last name
    Date of birth
    Address
    Driver’s license number
    Date on which driver’s license was first issued.

Each Vehicle must have the following information associated with it:

        Make e.g. Toyota, Ford, BMW, e.t.c
        Model
        Year
        Type – 4-door sedan, 2-door sports car, SUV, or truck
        Fuel Type – Diesel, Electric, Petrol
        Purchase Price (Assume all cars are bought brand new)
        Color
        Premium charged for this specific vehicle

Each Accident Claim must have the following information associated with it:

        A unique 6-digit alphanumeric Claim number in the following format “Cxxxxx” where x = a number from 0 to 9
        Date of accident
        Address where accident happened
        Description of accident
        Description of damage to vehicle
        Estimated cost of repairs

The Rating Engine object will have one and only one responsibility:

        to take a policy,
        iterate over all the vehicles within it,
         calculate the premium for each vehicle,
         add them all up and set the total policy premium on the policy object.